have you ever read a case interview
prompt and thought whoa how am I
supposed to solve that if this is you
don't worry by the end of this video
You're Gonna Learn a method for how you
can feel comfortable with any case
prompt no matter how tough it may seem
if you're first starting off with casing
one of the things that I recommend is
that you take a case problem a business
problem that you actually might solve
for a friend for example let's say a
friend is looking for a way to increase
her side income so she can pay off for
an event let's say like a wedding that's
the type of problem that you can do it
might seem simple but doing this would
allow you to be able to learn the Core
Concepts of doing a case interview and
apply it to even tougher cases I'm
actually going to show you today how
this is possible hi my name is Davis I'm
a former band consultant and the founder
of my Consulting offer here at my
Consulting offer we're a team of former
McKinsey Bain and BG recruiters
consultants and interviewers and we've
helped over 600 people from all
different types of backgrounds become
management consultants and get their
foot in the door at some of the most
prestigious firms in the world and I'm
excited to share with you some of the
lessons we've learned along the way in
these videos here in this video we'll be
walking through step by step a case
called The Wedding crisis in this case a
Management Consultant that's you we'll
be working with a friend to figure out
how she can earn additional money to
save up for her wedding sounds simple
right but this case you're going to
learn how you're going to be able to
apply everything you learned today to
tougher cases today we're going to be
covering all the elements that you'll
encounter in any case interviews we're
going to cover brainstorming we're in a
cover case math Market sizing reading
graphs communication structure all that
and you're going to see how taking a
simple problem such as helping a friend
save some additional dollars could
amount to you mastering the case
interview process in a comfortable and
easy Manner and at the end of the video
I'm going to share with you five tips
that you can use to actually learn to
master the case interview process in as
little as a week these videos take a ton
of time to make but if you do benefit
from them and you do like them and you
want to see more videos for example
covering how to master the case
interview process if you just tap the
like button they'll just tell me that
hey Davis the I really like these videos
and you make more and that will really
help me and my team prioritize what kind
of videos you want to see all right
let's dive in so first off we have to
recap the four parts of the case
interview process and you might have
already seen these parts from our
previous video the case interview prep
video these were the opening the
structure the analysis and a
recommendation if you haven't seen our
case interview prep video or you're new
to casing I highly recommend actually
you start there because a lot of what I
teach in that video will apply to what
you'll be doing today so if you watch
that video first and then come back here
you're going to learn a ton more than if
you just watch through this but if
you're already comfortable with casing
or you've seen the case interview prep
video then stay on her head because
we're going to start this case your
friend Maria a violinist in New York
City needs to replace her income that
she earns from playing the violin
because of a badly broken leg her doctor
says that she can't leave the apartment
until she is fully recovered and as with
all our case interview example videos my
goal for these videos is for you to
learn how to master the case interview
process and the best way for you to do
that is for you to do the case with me
again I have already gotten my offering
Consulting and I can't show up for your
interviews for you so even if I could be
great at casing if you're not able to
develop that same skill set you won't
get that offer but luckily because
you're on this video today the thing
that you can do is at certain sections
in the case what I'm going to do is I'm
going to ask you just to pause and do
the case with me don't worry because
when you come back to the video and
unpause it I'm gonna go ahead and share
with you an example answer that way we
can both learn together and you'll be on
your way to getting that Consulting
offer all right let's get started so we
start every case with the opening and in
the opening you're expected to do two
things one you're expected to recap The
Prompt that way to make sure that you're
on the same page as the interviewer you
didn't miss hearing anything
and two to ask any clarifying questions
that you might not understand for
example for Maria you might want to know
well how much money is she actually
trying to save for her wedding and
second how many months is she going to
be in her apartment you should feel
comfortable asking these questions in
the opening because this is your time to
get smart on the topic and if you ask
the right questions in the opening is
actually going to help you solve the
case a lot easier I'll show you an
example in a bit so now what I want you
to do is pause the video and then
pretend that I'm the interviewer or you
can stare off the space wherever you're
comfortable or you can stare at the
laptop whatever makes you feel like you
can practice and I want you to practice
the opening figure out what would you
recap and what kind of clarification
questions would you ask and then when
you come back I'm going to go ahead and
share with you how I would do the
opening all right pause the video
all right you're back okay so what I
would do here is the following
for the opening you might have said
something like Maria a violinist is
stuck in her New York City apartment
because of a broken leg and needs to
replace that income and also save up for
her wedding is that correct after the
interviewer confirms The Prompt I would
follow up with clarifying questions such
as does Maria have any other skills
besides to playing the violin that she
would also want to use to supplement her
income how much does Maria need to save
how long until Maria's leg is recovered
while Maria is open to other work Maria
is in particular wanting to leverage her
violin skills such as teaching violin
lessons because she understands there's
been an uptake in people wanting to
spend time on hobbies and interests
Maria's Target savings for the wedding
is thirty thousand dollars she only
needs to save up half because her fiance
will be saving the other half as for the
recovery period until she's back to
normal and able to leave the apartment
regularly again the doctor estimates
that this will be about four to six
months so after the opening the next
phase of the case is the structure so
the structure is when after you've gone
through the opening you know what you're
solving for the interview gives you some
time to structure your thoughts and this
is where you lay out your approach or
your your tree and think about well what
would I want to know in order to help my
client and if the words issue tree or
structure is new to you check out our
structuring and issue tree videos it
will give you a little bit more context
so you can come back but if you're
already familiar with issue trees and
structuring let's dive ahead so what I
want you to do is take a minute or two
which is similar to what you would get
in an interview pause the video do the
structure and then come back and I'm
going to share with you an example of a
structure you could have alright pause
the video now as a reminder there's no
one true right answer there's so many
different types of structure that you
can produce the reason for this is that
if there's only one true right structure
it wouldn't make sense for consulting
firms to use a case interview process
because then they were not really
evaluating you on your potential to be a
consultant where there are many ways to
approach a question so as I go through
my structure just don't think that this
is the only answer and also note though
the areas where we have similarities but
also areas where you're like huh I
didn't include that in my structure I
totally missed that because one of the
keys to getting really great at case
interviews is to become with knowing
that you're not going to get it right
all the time but you're able to go
through note what is missing so the next
time which is a similar question you
won't have to answer all right let's go
through one example of a structure you
could produce at the top level I want to
address four issues first how can we
increase Maria's income more than we
increase her cost this includes how's
Maria currently supporting herself if in
any form from her apartment how can we
add other streams of income second
whatever assets does she have such as a
YouTube subscriber list or even an email
list third I want to know what is the
market demand for Maria's skills this
includes looking at what is the market
looking for when it comes to Maria's
skills fourth I want to know does Maria
face any competition within the market
for her skills this includes knowing are
there other people marking similar
skills to Maria to make money and what
makes Maria unique to stand out from
them and by the way if you're interested
in mastering the case interview process
in as little time as possible then I
highly recommend that you book a free
30-minute strategy session with my team
and we'll lay out a methodology to get
you from where you are in your casing
abilities to ultimately being able to
pass that interview and get that offer
so I'll provide a link to that below
this video so you can have a chance to
book a free strategy session all right
so let's say Maria likes your thinking
and she wants to move ahead with the
analysis and she wants to start with a
brainstorming in particular she wants to
brainstorm what are the different income
streams that she should consider since
this is a casing 101 video what I'm
going to do is have you pause here
do brainstorming brainstorm out all the
ways that you can think of for Maria to
make some income and then when you come
back I'm going to share with you a
methodology that you can use to double
the amount of items that you have all
right pause the video now and take a
minute to brainstorm all right you're
back okay so I'm going to share with you
a brainstorming technique that I like to
use called The X non-x method and this
is going to help you come up with more
creative ideas as well as provide a
structure to your brainstorming for
example let's Imagine The Prompt was
name all the items that you might find
in a fridge you might be like whoa
there's a lot of things here but if you
add a constraint to it I promise you're
going to think of more items for example
let's say we use the X not X method as
the name implies you take one thing and
then you do the opposite of it as the
other list there's no limit to what it
could be like for example you could
choose x equals playing so playing
violin now I'm playing violin it could
be remote non-remote it could be like
teaching as X non-teaching ideas as
non-x take whichever one you're
comfortable with and take another minute
and brainstorm ideas
and if you do it correctly with X naught
X you'll find that you had more ideas
than you did the first time all right
take a minute now and pause the video
all right you're back so as I mentioned
you could pick any X non X so in this
scenario I'm going to pick playing
non-playing and I'm gonna share with you
my list under playing the violin I've
included One streaming solo live
performances to coordinating virtual
group performances three starting a
YouTube channel so you can get ad
revenue or even sponsorships for
performing at virtual weddings and
events five emailing her past clients
and customers to see if they want
private events via Zoom 6. creating
music tracks to license for example
putting them on Spotify seven creating a
patreon account for her fans to donate
in exchange for let's say exclusive
music eight creating music tracks to
sell directly and nine performing for
her neighbors who might want to come
over my non-playing violin ideas one she
could teach online violin lessons
one-on-one two she could teach online
violin lessons in group formats three
she can teach online music theory
classes four she could coordinates
special music events that don't need her
to be there in person for example being
an organizer fifth creating an online
course for how to play the violin and
six creating an online course for how to
take care of your violin or seven
creating an online course for how to buy
a violin eight taking her existing music
track in an uploading dose of Spotify so
she doesn't have to create anything new
just upload past recordings that she has
and now I'm creating sheet music for
popular songs and potentially selling
and Licensing them after the
brainstorming analysis I don't want to
test you even deeper across the
different areas of problem solving so
they might say something like the
following Maria likes all your ideas and
in particular the one around being a
violin teacher since she wants to play
the violin and has thought about being a
violin teacher at one point because she
had a great violin teacher growing up
Maria is curious how much could she make
if she were to teach one-on-one Zoom
classes for the next month she wants to
start small with one-on-one lessons
before she goes to a group format how
would you answer this question this is
known as a market sizing question that
is the interviewer wants to test how
well you can estimate the population or
size let's say revenue from a market
they're less interested in the actual
answer itself and more about your
thought process the logic behind it and
the assumptions that you make if this is
your first time going through a market
sizing we're gonna go through it
together and if you want to learn more
about it there's more videos that I
cover this I'll include that as well but
let's go through this Market sizing
together because this is a casing 101
video what I want to do is I'm going to
give you one piece of advice what you
want to avoid is starting with a
calculation because there's nothing
worse than starting a calculation
halfway through you realize oh wait I
missed a step right so pause this video
now and write out your approach and then
when you come back I'm going to share
with you my Approach and we're going to
go through the maps together here's how
I would approach estimating how much
Maria could make in one month I assume
that there are going to be four weeks in
a month I would assume that Maria is is
only teaching five days and not seven
days a week this would give her time to
get more students do invoicing and plan
for the lessons this would give us a
total of 20 days of active teaching per
month that is I took the four weeks and
multiplied by the five teaching days per
week I'll also assume that Maria won't
have a full schedule right away and she
would need some time to get some
students I'm going to estimate that this
will take about two weeks or ten working
days for Maria to ramp up to a schedule
of students this leaves us 10 paid days
next month 10 days to get the students
and 10 days of working with the students
I'll also assume that she'll have 10
hour working days and she'll take two
hour breaks for example for lunch and
spend the rest of the eight hours
teaching in a month she'll have 80
teaching hours so that is the 10 days
times 8 hours per day to get 80 hours of
teaching for each hour I'm also going to
assume that she's going to charge the
same amount to every student to keep the
math simple while I haven't hired a
violin teacher before I do know when I
see Flyers around my town new teachers
tend to charge about 50 an hour so I'm
going to assume that Maria will also be
able to charge fifty dollars an hour
this has been Maria would be considered
a new teacher so I'm going to take her
hourly rate of 50 and multiply it by the
number of teaching hours which we said
already is going to be 80 hours per
month when I multiply it to two together
I get four thousand dollars so I would
expect Maria to earn about four thousand
dollars during her first month as a
violin teacher and potentially if she
continued this she might be able to make
twice as much on the following month
when she has a full roster of students
and not spending the first half of the
month trying to get her first students
so that concludes the market sizing so
at this point the interviewer has two
paths that they can take one if time has
run out or they've seen enough of your
casing they might move to wrap up the
case or if there is time and they want
to see more of your casing abilities
they're going to push you a little bit
further so let's imagine that that's the
case right now and the interviewer is
impressed so far with what you've done
but they want to see more of your
thinking the interviewer might then
transition to another analysis by saying
something like this so Maria is really
happy about your calculations in fact
she got so excited that she started
doing her own research so this enters us
into another part of the analysis which
is the exhibit reading as the name
implies this is when the interviewer
gives you to an exhibit like a graph or
chart and ask you to analyze what it
means so when you're given an exhibit
which is often one of the most common
types of analysis that you can be asked
to do during case interview so you
definitely want to be comfortable with
this you want to accomplish a few things
but mainly you want to know what exactly
does the data say what are the insights
from it and third how does it apply to
the actual client what I want you to do
is read aloud all the things that we
talked about to work with the
interviewer through this process so I
want you to do here is pause the video
and then think about how you would
approach this exhibit if this was given
to you
all right you're back so let me share
with you how I would approach this
exhibit this chart has data about the
willingness to pay and the
competitiveness across various market
segments for people looking for violin
lessons it gives an idea about the level
of competition from other violin
instructors the market size of each
segment is portrayed using the size of
the circle at first glance it might seem
that Maria should go ahead with the
segment which has the lowest competition
and the highest willingness to pay which
is the adult Advanced segment but that
segment has a really small Market size
and Maria would likely need extensive
teaching experience to cater to the
advanced adult students this is Maria's
first time teaching violin and she might
want to have a high earning potential so
the optimal segment I would think of
would be one with a good Market size and
a reasonable trade-off between
willingness to pay as well as
competitiveness based on this data here
I would recommend that Maria go with the
college intermediate and adult
intermediate segments this is because
she has the skills to cater to both
these segments with ease Additionally
the combined market share is
considerable and a relative trade-off of
competitiveness and willing miss the pay
is suitable as well all right so that
concludes the exhibit reading portion of
the analysis at this point the
interviewer again has two options they
can continue to push you on your
thinking or they might choose to wrap up
the case because time ran out or they've
seen enough if they choose to continue
to push you on your thinking take that
is a really good sign it means that the
interviewer is really impressed with
what you've seen so far they haven't
rejected you otherwise they're in the
case and they want to see more they want
to see the limits of your thinking they
want to see your true Consulting
potential so take it as a really good
sign but in this scenario let's say in
our case the interviewer has seen enough
and they're impressed so far and they
want to see how well we can wrap up the
case so they might say something like
Maria's really enjoyed this conversation
with you and in fact she's excited to
make some money what's your final
recommendation for her for your
recommendation you want to recap the
problem
give the recommendation give your
reasons for recommendation list the
major risks that comes from this
recommendation and figure out a way to
retain the client that is if they
continue to work with you what would you
want to work on remember the point of
recommendation is to be succinct just
list out the main arguments you don't
have to cover every single detail that
you've learned over the case just the
main ones go ahead and say the
recommendation either to your webcam to
the laptop to me to the wall whatever
you just need to be able to practice it
and get that rep in all right so pause
the video and then when you come back
I'll be here
Maria you wanted to know how you can
make money towards your wedding while
being stuck recovering in your apartment
I recommend that you begin teaching
one-on-one violin lessons focusing on
the adult intermediate and the college
intermediate segments I recommend this
for three reasons first you want to use
your violin talents to reach your
wedding goal and this would net us four
thousand dollars per month the first
month and likely eight thousand dollars
a month in future months second teaching
one-on-one classes allows you to have
both in person if a student decides to
come to your apartment or online if they
prefer to do it remotely and third
because there is a clear opportunity
among intermediate level clients a good
number of clients already exist and
competition is manageable the risk to my
assessment is that we haven't thought
about how to reach these potential
students and how to identify which
students would be considered
intermediate so you don't have to waste
your time targeting the wrong segment if
given more time I've helped you figure
out which your marketing channels to
quickly reach your target students so
you can start earning money right away
alright that was our case if this was
your first case practice congratulations
on completing your first case practice
and if this wasn't your first case
practice I hope you learned something
today that will help you be able to
accelerate how quickly you can Master
the case interview process and be on
your way to learning that dream
Consulting offer I hope you see now the
value of taking simple everyday problems
and being able to turn that into a case
practice so that when you do encounter a
tougher more complex case you'll be able
to master those as well and if you want
more examples of cases whether they're
on the same level as today's case or
even more complex ones you can check a
lot of them out in our YouTube channel
so highly encourage that you check those
videos out as you do your case practices
and since you've made it to the very end
of this video what I want to do is be
able to share with you five additional
tips that you can use to speed up your
case interview prep tip number one stop
counting the number of cases that you're
doing this is a terrible terrible
measure number of cases you do isn't
correlated way of how well you can
actually do a case interview so for
example if we took two people who've
never done a case interview before one
of them does 10 case practices but
they're quality Case practices have good
case partners and so forth and then you
compare their results to someone else
who also starts with no casing
experience but they do 50 cases but
they're with Bad Case Partners they're
bad practices at the end of the 50 cases
versus the 10 cases the person who does
the 10 cases is going to be much further
ahead similar to how you wouldn't take
swimming lessons from someone who's
never been in a pool you want to
practice with Quality Partners who know
what they're doing and can give you
great feedback so focus on the number of
quality cases not the number of cases
you just happen to do number two is
consistency matters more than the number
of hours that you put in it doesn't
matter if you put in a lot of hours or
your practice if you're not consistent
about it week to week you're going to
see very little progress invest a number
of hours in case interview practice each
week this way it will be clear how many
hours exactly you need to improve tip
number three is to take your past case
examples and practices to speed up your
practice record your case answers and
watch yourself afterwards it may be
weird at first to watch yourself
presenting and to spot all of your
mistakes but it goes a long way in terms
of helping you improve quickly so that's
why I highly recommend that if you can
just during your case practices take out
your phone and record the sessions that
way you can just review the recording as
well as the notes that you took so you
want to make sure you have a recording
and clean notes tip number four is to
master one part of the case interview
process at a time the fastest way for
you to learn how to master the case end
to end is actually to isolate out the
parts and to do them one at a time until
you're comfortable with them and then
move on to the next section of the case
for example if you're struggling with
case interview math take the time to
figure out what's causing math to be
your weakness if you're having issues
converting fractions into percentages
then take the time to memorize the most
common fractions and percentage
conversions tip number five is to avoid
case burnout and to take breaks it's
okay to take breaks as you're doing your
case practices
avoid case burnout if you're not
motivated to do the case you won't be
able to learn from your case interview
practice if you show for your actual
interviews you're not going to be
enthusiastic about the case interview
you're going to be like oh this is
another case or I'm gonna be on
autopilot the interviewer is going to
quickly pick this up and as a result
think that you're not a good fit for the
firm so if you're feeling like you're
about to burn out it's okay to take a
day or two off in fact even professional
athletes take breaks so you can too so
now you've learned a method for being
comfortable with tough business prompts
by taking simpler problems and solving
those and I've also shared with you the
five tips that you can use to speed up
your Mastery of case interviews in as
little as a week and if you're serious
about learning how to master the case
interview process in as little time as
possible and as with little stress as
possible I want to help you so my team
and I want to make sure that you succeed
So currently right now we're offering
free 30-minute strategy sessions we're
going to get on a call with you figure
out where you are in your casing journey
and figure out a map for you to master
the case interview process in as low as
a week all you have to do to claim one
of your spots is to click the link below
so during the call my team and I will
walk you through step by step how to get
from where you are to Landing your dream
offer no matter what firm it is so we're
excited about this in fact we've helped
over 600 people and many of them had
very little time to prepare for the case
interviews had no business background
and some of them didn't even know where
to start when it came to a case
interview we're able to get them up to
speed in as little as a week and be on
your way to Landing multiple offers
but you don't take my word for it hear
from Helena about what it was like to
learn our proven method and be on her
way to mastering the case interview